This capstone report delineates the comprehensive methodology and analytical review undertaken for the metallographic examination of fishhooks in order to enhance corrosion resistance in fish hooks, an endeavor driven by the critical need to maintain the integrity and sustainability of fishing equipment in marine environments. The motivation behind this study is twofold: first, to extend the life space and efficacy of fish hooks in commercial and recreational fishing, and second, to mitigate the environmental impact caused by corroded metal waste. Corrosion compromises the structural integrity of fish hooks, leading to reduced effectiveness and potential environmental damage. To accomplish this, our objective was to elucidate the microstructural characteristics that influence the performances and durability of these components. The procedural narrative encompasses the selection of sectioning tools, mounting practices, grinding, polishing, etching, and subsequent optical microscopy (OM) will be employed to examine the microstructure, followed by etching first with nital then picral for a sequence of 50, 55, then 65 seconds and exposing to scanning electron microscopy (SEM) for detailed surface characterization. The corrosion assessment will be conducted via electrochemical corrosion testing measurements taken with a voltmeter. Several plots and tables with the calculations of our corrosion rates, current density plots, as well as geometric representations of displaying electrochemical impedance data were generated with MATLAB, python, and non-computational FEA analysis and  Given the time-sensitive nature and laboratory constraints of our research, traditional gravimetric and salt spray testing methods were deemed unsuitable due to their lengthy procedures and unavailability of equipment. Similarly, traditional electrochemical testing was also not feasible because of a lack of faculties. To circumvent these limitations we evolved an unconventional approach that leverages basic electrochemical principles and creative engineering solutions to evaluate corrosion rates in place of a potentiostat. This was done using a makeshift ‘circuit’ composed of salt bridge and salt-chalk-water solution, as well as a makeshift copper/copper sulfate reference electrode in saturated solution around 25ºC (room temp) to produce a +0.317 volts potential and resistance measured with a voltmeter. Deriving certain parameters from experimental data primarily from Ohm’s law and the Stern-Geary equation to relate the polarization resistance. We regularly measured the potential and resistance over time to monitor the changes in corrosion behavior, then created software to apply the computed equations to estimate corrosion rates. Then we created a rudimentary plot of hypothetical linear current-density polarization, to test that from which we could find the current-density changes from anodic to cathodic can be used to determine the polarization resistance Rp. Future research uses advanced testing such as electrochemical microscopy (EIS) and developing a better plan for polishing our samples to eliminate scratches in SEM analysis which proved to be one of the largest obstacles we encountered in our experiment. It is important to note that the development of a predictive model of corrosion behavior including finite element analysis to put together SEM images and geometries where precipitates could occur more rapidly is necessary for this assessment as the resistance measurements alone are not sufficient to calculate corrosion rate (usually expressed in mils penetration per year - mpy). Proper corrosion testing would require addition electrochemical parameters like corrosion potential (Ecorr) and corrion current (icorr) which are obtained from techniques like linear polarization resistance (LPR) or potentiodynamic polarization curves. This was overcome by applying our theoretical knowledge and using image editing software to enhance our image quality to see what we might have expected, and then to compare with higher-quality images in the future. 
Polarization Resistance (Rp): Polarization resistance is related to the ease with which current flows through your system in response to a small applied potential around the corrosion potential. It is a measure of the electrochemical reaction’s resistance to corrosion and can be measured by a technique called Linear Polarization Resistance (LPR). To test this theory to match the literature before putting to practice our hypothetical setup, however, with our simple setup, we might not be able to apply the exact LPR method, but we can still measure resistance chances. 
Data Analysis Tools: 
It is important to clarify that a simple voltmeter set to measure resistance (in ohms) is not the standard tool for measuring corrosion rates. Still, with an experimental set up that took resistance measurements from a small copper sheet metal and our sample fish hooks as the working electrode, these values can give a very rudimentary estimate of corrosion resistance. MATLAB was used to create plots ASTM G1-03 and ASTM G3-14 are standards used to outline the procedures for performing such tests, as well as basic electrical, physics, mechanical, and chemistry knowledge to hand-draw and speculate finite element analysis of these fish hooks. Derivations of these parameters are done in the approach and analysis rather than the background because they are a part f of our approach to getting results; thus, terms, diagrams, and equations we may use to design our experiment are postulated and explained here, then, code was drafted in preparation to collect the data we needed.

